---
title: neovim이란 ?
categories: 
    - network 
---

### neovim 이란?
> Neovim is a modern, highly extensible, and backward-compatible text editor that is designed as a fork and successor to the Vim text editor. It aims to provide a better user experience, improved performance, and enhanced extensibility while maintaining compatibility with Vim's keybindings and configuration.

neovim == 모던한 text editor <br>
vim 포크버전, vim보다 성능이 준수하며 vim의 후계자로 불리움 <br>

### 역사

> Neovim was born out of the desire to address limitations and shortcomings in the original Vim codebase and to build a foundation for future improvements and innovations. The project was initiated in 2014 by a group of developers who sought to modernize Vim and make it more maintainable and accessible for contributors.

vim codebase의 한계를 개선하고 단점이 보안되어 2014년에 탄생 <br>

### 만듦새
> Neovim is primarily written in the C and Lua programming languages.
The core functionality and performance-critical parts of Neovim are implemented in C. This includes the low-level editing engine, text handling, buffer management, and other core components. Writing these performance-critical sections in C allows Neovim to maintain a high level of efficiency and speed.<br><br>
    Lua is used as the scripting language for Neovim's plugin system and customization capabilities. Lua provides a lightweight and efficient scripting environment that allows users to extend and customize Neovim's functionality. With Lua, users can write plugins, automate tasks, define keybindings, and customize the editor's behavior to suit their preferences.<br><br>
    By combining C and Lua, Neovim achieves a balance between performance and extensibility. The core components implemented in C provide speed and efficiency, while the Lua scripting environment offers flexibility and customization options for users and plugin developers.<br><br>

C와 lua기반으로 구성<br>
C로는 성능과 관련된 중요한 코어(섹션)을 구성 > 효율성, 속도up<br>
가벼운 스크립트언어인 lua로는 neovim을 customize 하기위한 플러그인을 작성<br>

### 요약 
nvim == C와 lua로 구성된 vim의 성능개선된 모던 text editor.<br>
